Joe Beda: Hello, hello!
Joe Beda: Can you hear me?
Joe Beda: I can't hear you.
Joe Beda: You are muted.
Joe Beda: It's not me, it's you. You're the problem.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, it's in fact that I had the mute on. I was about to go try to debug my microphone or something.
Joe Beda: It was a USB problem.
Joe Beda: It's like, you know how it's like, it's like, you know, it's never the compiler, it's never the kernel, or like, you know, it's always DNS. I feel like USB is the sort of desktop equivalent of…
Joe Beda: There's some things where it's like, it's never that until it is, and then there's other things where it's always that until it isn't, you know?
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, you know, it's… it's… I can count the number of times it's been, you know, like the compiler, or the BIOS, or…
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: the libc or whatever on, you know, one hand.
Joe Beda: I mean, it's always a possibility in the back of your head, but every time when you find yourself saying, I think this is a compiler bug, it's like, yeah, no, probably it's your own bullshit.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, I mean, performance problems? Maybe. Like, correctness problems? It's probably not the compiler.
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Joe Beda: Hello, hello?
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, hello, dude.
Kostadis Roussos: is not working.
Kostadis Roussos: That's no big deal. I know how to fix this.
Ben Pfaff: I still look like I have, basically a green screen behind me, because I haven't done anything to the wall yet, but I promise I will.
Joe Beda: How's the new house working out?
Ben Pfaff: You know, I just returned from a 4-day weekend, away from the house, so, you know, it hadn't burned down and it hadn't been burgled while I was away, so…
Joe Beda: Well, that's always, you know, the first trip away of a new house is kind of always a little bit nerve-wracking, because you're like…
Joe Beda: Is this thing still gonna be here when I get back?
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, well, ADT is coming to activate the security system tomorrow, and I'll feel a little bit more settled after that.
Joe Beda: Well, we were… we were gone this last weekend, and we set the alarm… normally we don't set our alarm, because there's always somebody in the house coming and going.
Joe Beda: We were gone this last weekend up to the place on Orcus, and so we set the alarm, and we came back. We discovered that opening the garage apparently sets off the alarm, so… that's not great.
Gabe: usual.
Kostadis Roussos: What, the garage setting off the alarm?
Gabe: The garage door being tied into the alarm system, man.
Joe Beda: I mean, I kinda wanted to…
Joe Beda: I want to maybe have a sensor there so I can figure out when the garage is open or closed, that type of thing, but, like.
Joe Beda: I don't want to… like, we came in, and we, like, listen, and it's like, the police are being called! I'm like, don't call the fucking police! It's like…
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, I have a…
Kostadis Roussos: If we want to call the police, we're calling the police.
Joe Beda: Well, in Seattle, if you want to call the cops, you have to have eyes on something happening. It can't just be an alarm, right? Because it's just, like.
Joe Beda: And so we have cameras, and we have live monitoring, where somebody looks at the camera, supposedly, and then, like, I don't know. I don't believe it.
Ben Pfaff: I have a camera facing out to the garage door.
Joe Beda: I have a very extensive camera system that we had to install during the construction, and I hate it.
Kostadis Roussos: Just for the record, and is it orchestrated through a Kubernetes PubSub layer that has been added to the CNCF?
Kostadis Roussos: Or is it now coked into a series of DGX Sparks, or in your case, Apple Mac Studio Pro 4s, running vision models?
Joe Beda: So, no.
Kostadis Roussos: But let me ask you a question. Did anybody… was anybody expecting to hear yes? Because I certainly was.
Joe Beda: There is an open-source NVR system that is Kubernetes-based and scalable. And then I also learned that, like.
Joe Beda: TrueNAS was originally built to run on Kubernetes, because Homelabbers and all that, but they found that the mass majority of their customers, because this is everybody running a box at home, just needed a single boxer, like, fuck it, we're going back to, like, Docker Compose. And I'm like, yeah, that's probably the right call.
Gabe: Yeah.
Ben Pfaff: So, apparently, ADT is going to replace all my cameras with Google Nest cameras, so, I mean, suppose… I suppose those would be running on the moral equivalent of Kubernetes.
Joe Beda: Maybe on the server side.
Gabe: It's…
Joe Beda: I mean, I would take a second look at that, man, and see how much you want to spend, because it's like, you may be able to put up a Ubiquiti system where everything actually stays on-prem, and, like, let me tell you, I have one Ubiquiti camera.
Joe Beda: That thing's fucking awesome. The app is amazing, and it's so much better than any of the cloud-hosted ones.
Gabe: I have both of these. I have Ubiquiti and Nest. Nest is awful. Like, think carefully before you go down that road.
Ben Pfaff: Well, they, they told me that they weren't going to charge me anything to replace the cameras, so I, I…
Ben Pfaff: I… it's a starting point, and maybe I can get something better. Who the hell knows? This is my first security assistant of any kind. I know nothing.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, the question is, will you rewrite all the code in Rust?
Joe Beda: yearly.
Kostadis Roussos: and set up an SDN network that connects all of the devices in a highly resilient and fault-tolerant way.
Ben Pfaff: No, I only want
Ben Pfaff: I only want to be a user of this, I don't want to be a programmer of it.
Gabe: Actually, that's one of the annoying things about Nest. It's very closed and very locked down, so you really can't do anything interesting with them. It's quite annoying.
Ben Pfaff: Well, I'm gonna make sure that I get the old cameras are up, so I can fuss with those.
Joe Beda: Alright, I want to brag about an AI thing that I did over the last couple of days that I'm… it's a new pattern that I'm really excited about.
Joe Beda: You know how, like, oftentimes you're like, if everybody just would, like, put all their data in this specific schema, the world would be better, and then you invent the schema, and you do that, and nobody does it, because, like, writing out fucking, sort of, like, JSON or YAML or whatever files for the schema for, like, keeping track of data is, like, a total pain in the ass, and nobody wants to do it?
Joe Beda: So, I wanted us to do domain modeling, so, like, as we do more products, like, what are the nouns and the relationships, and, like, because that stuff is, like, both super useful for humans, and also useful for agents to understand a system, and I'm like, well, we should have some sort of schema, a…
Joe Beda: We could have used JSON, but I ended up doing YAML.
Joe Beda: I'm sorry, Christatis is like, well, what?
Kostadis Roussos: Wait, Joe used Camel?
Kostadis Roussos: Anyway, so…
Joe Beda: I did that, and then I wrote a comma… I had it… I mean, I wrote, like, a command line… like, I wrote a command line utility that would lint and then rental that into a human-readable document, and then I wrote a set of skills…
Joe Beda: that guide you through, essentially, building up this schema. And so, at the end of the day, you're using something like Claude Code
Joe Beda: To build structured data that then gets rendered into something that's more human-readable.
Joe Beda: And that pattern works amazingly well.
Joe Beda: it worked so well. I, like, went through it, I'm like, oh, let me, like, describe this sort of system, and it, like, was able to, like, take my prompts and, like, turn it into something reasonable, and I was able to, like, tweak it, and it adjusted it, and then at the end of the day, I end up with, like, a clean
Joe Beda: clean outline of what I want, combined with some really good human-readable documentation on it. It was super cool.
Kostadis Roussos: Awesome.
Joe Beda: I don't know if that makes sense. I don't know if you guys always are like, let's put this into a data format, and then we can do everything with it, and then it never works out because people are… people suck, you know what I'm saying? I've done that at least half a dozen times in my career.
Daz: I have found the tighter you make the lane with the guardrails, and the more constrained of the tools you allow.
Daz: the LLMs to use, the better the outcome.
Joe Beda: So if you pair them with a command line tool that, like, frickin' links and gives warnings on the schema.
Joe Beda: They're a lot more effective at understanding how to use that stuff.
Daz: One of the guys I work with wrote a little,
Daz: module in Go called Go Rains, like reins on a horse.
Daz: Okay. And it basically, it basically declares,
Daz: It basically declares constants that will end up being, illegal, so that it will not compile.
Daz: and the constants are computed by things like… it's a pre-compile thing before you start compiling. The constants are computed by doing things like cyclic complexity, number of functions in a file, number of…
Daz: arguments in a function, like, so max number of arguments in a function, max number of functions in the file, max amount of cyclic complexity per function, things like that, and then, like, and it's fascinating, because you can have the LLM, like, you can really restrict it and tell it, like, no, you're only allowed to have a cyclic complexity of, like, 2.
Daz: And then it ends up with, like, 700 functions. But then you can also say, like, you can only have one function, and it'll write the nastiest function you've ever seen that just, like, flows the whole state table in code that's repeated and a bunch of other stuff. But it's kind of cool.
Joe Beda: Go does support anonymous functions, so you could, like, do it all JavaScript style.
Daz: And you can dial it back and forth and, like, find where the sweet spot is, and then you can actually just make that part of the declaration for that module that you're compiling to where you want to use that, and you want to… because then it keeps the LLM from doing stupid shit.
Ben Pfaff: I feel like it's like.
Joe Beda: Whenever you had the command… what were you saying, Ben?
Ben Pfaff: There are so many ways to write bad code.
Daz: Yes.
Joe Beda: Have you ever done the thing where you had a command line flag that says, evil command line flag, don't use this, die, die, die, and like…
Joe Beda: You know, I feel like it's kind of like that.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Daz: Family.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so, I'm really happy to see Joe has discovered AI.
Daz: Come on.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm running something.
Joe Beda: blog posts… I have one that I'm gonna publish tomorrow that is, like, the new 20% time, and it's, like, it's really the 120% time just from the get-go, because it… time is not the thing that restrains us now, it's actually attention, and you end up with, like, what is being called brain fry, where it's, like, if you're tasked switching too much…
Joe Beda: you get tired faster, and so none of us can keep this stuff up for an 8-hour day. It's exhausting.
Daz: Right.
Joe Beda: we feel like we should, and so there's this sort of, like, I don't know. So, it's interesting.
Kostadis Roussos: Like I said, it's really cool to see Joe excited.
Kostadis Roussos: I wasn't being sarcastic, I was actually saying it.
Joe Beda: Yeah, I appreciate it. And also, it feels like using these tools feels like you're sculpting clay instead of actually welding metal.
Daz: Yeah.
Daz: Or shaving, shaving foam instead of welding.
Joe Beda: Yeah, it's just, it feels very fast and malleable, whereas before, you had to think hard because, like, every line of code, like, was just…
Joe Beda: Etched in stone, you know?
Kostadis Roussos: I believe you. Nope.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so were we? So, first things first.
Kostadis Roussos: I, shared with you a Google document, which has all of the latest clues, so that you don't have to remember what exactly you were doing last time.
Daz: And I very much appreciate that, and have been pouring over it.
Joe Beda: Alright, so I'm gonna open the AI sidebar and say who did it.
Joe Beda: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, and so you have just finished…
Kostadis Roussos: But you've just been dismissed by, Queenie, who said, enough with the tickles.
Kostadis Roussos: Actually, what she said was, So many questions and so few tickles. You may leave now, and please give yourself a proper licking before returning to my tower.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, your adjutant Fembric Lancer.
Kostadis Roussos: To… that explains that he's very, you know, very excited, he's, you know, an avowed, a lot of full avowed, but more of a child-avowed.
Kostadis Roussos: Acolyte, that's the word I'm looking for. It says, well, I think it's important that we need to go, we need to go back to the great, the chapter house and talk to a bookworm, to give her a summary of what happens. After all, don't forget, that is exactly what she asked us to do, to provide a summary of the events.
Daz: It is, though.
Ben Pfaff: true? I thought we were asked to find out what…
Daz: I thought, yeah, we had to find out who…
Ben Pfaff: Well, I guess summarizing the events is pretty much the same as finding out who did it from one.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, so, so, so, he goes, well, well, if you don't recall, let me just say.
Ben Pfaff: I would make a bad detective, because I don't have a perfect memory. All the fictional detectives have perfect memories.
Joe Beda: I don't know if they do, I think real detectives just write everything down.
Ben Pfaff: Poirot never does.
Joe Beda: No, he doesn't. It's like, at the end of the episode, he's like, okay, everybody sit down, I'm gonna tell you what's what. I freaking love it. My wife and I have watched the entire series, and we're down to the last episode, and we're saving it. I'm not sure for why, but…
Kostadis Roussos: So, so just for the record, Bookwyrm, just before, she left you at Janussi's, house, Bookwyrm, said.
Kostadis Roussos: What'd she say? I have it right here.
Kostadis Roussos: She asks you to… asks you to report back to her as soon as you are done investigating Janussi's room.
Ben Pfaff: Alright, then let's go back. We've talked to the cat, and we've investigated the room, and it's…
Joe Beda: Claire, who are we working for, exactly?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, I mean, you…
Ben Pfaff: justice.
Kostadis Roussos: Who are you working for? Justice.
Kostadis Roussos: You were tasked by Bookwyrm, who was the first speaker.
Joe Beda: I guess, who has the power to fire us and tell us to go away?
Kostadis Roussos: Bookwyrm.
Ben Pfaff: Then we're working for Bookland.
Joe Beda: I'm just saying, like, if Bookwyrm ended up doing it, which I don't think she did, but… Then,
Joe Beda: This could get awkward.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm just saying, you know, it could be.
Joe Beda: No.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. So, you head back to the chapter house, and you will find that the Council of the Great Readers has been disbanded, and that Bookwyrm is in a conference with the slender human elf of around 50 years old, notable for his bald scalp and black side whiskers that chisel down into a goatee burg… burger… beard.
Kostadis Roussos: The same moon health, well, it's actually, so, sorry, you're,
Kostadis Roussos: Anybody have a wisdom perception over 20?
Ben Pfaff: Well, what is a wisdom perception?
Kostadis Roussos: Was perception. Perception.
Joe Beda: I have a plus 3, what does that mean?
Daz: I have a passive investigation of 23. I think this is important to know for the future, but my perception is only 15.
Kostadis Roussos: Zach, Zalthir?
Gabe: 15.
Kostadis Roussos: What about you, Grygum?
Ben Pfaff: Isn't it just 10 plus your bonus?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Joe Beda: we're talking.
Gabe: passive.
Joe Beda: Perception? Perception, or…
Kostadis Roussos: Passive perception, yes.
Joe Beda: Oh, okay.
Ben Pfaff: Gosh, I have a 15.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, well, roll a… roll your perceptions.
Daz: Perception, perception.
Joe Beda: Oh, I haven't reloaded this yet. Give me a second, let me reload.
Ben Pfaff: 11.
Daz: Wow.
Joe Beda: if I don't read.
Daz: Why didn't mine report twice? That's weird.
Kostadis Roussos: I don't know, it's something.
Joe Beda: You need to reload shit, that happens to me too.
Daz: Alright, I'll reload it.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, the… for some reason, the die rolling with the plugin has stopped working for me, I don't want…
Joe Beda: Why did it roll it twice?
Gabe: But, but I guess…
Joe Beda: Reloaded everything. Let's go with the 19, I like that one better, and it was first.
Daz: What's the first…
Kostadis Roussos: We go with the first roll. Alright,
Kostadis Roussos: You don't hear anything. Once you walk… once you walk in, to the, the same wolf… moon elf scribes halt you as you're about to go in, but, Bookwyrm ushers you in, and introduces you to the elf.
Kostadis Roussos: Kei Tigersteel, who apparently is the priest… the Lower Keeper of Candlekeep, who serves as priest of the Temple of Oghma.
Kostadis Roussos: He is considered the library's spiritual leader, says, bookworm.
Kostadis Roussos: She asks you, so, very serious, have you concluded your investigation of the crime scene?
Ben Pfaff: Yes, we did investigate. We examined the body, we examined the room, we spoke to, the occupants.
Joe Beda: We would appreciate it if you could actually still hold it so that nobody goes in there and…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, of course, of course, of course.
Joe Beda: So we're done with the investigation.
Kostadis Roussos: Absolutely, absolutely. Absolutely. She then turns to, to… Kei Tigersteel and says, yes, Kai, you can take the, you can take the body to the Shrine of Oghma for purification, and she dismisses the priest.
Kostadis Roussos: Now she's alone.
Kostadis Roussos: She… and she says she takes you to a nearby room known as Deneir's Sanctum, in which, as you look around, realize it's called Deneir's because it's a shrine to Deneir, and it's a library dedicated to the art of writing and study.
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, well, you can use this room as your office to interview anyone you wish as part of your investigation, and you can rely on Fembric Lancer to catch… fetch any suspects and witnesses you wish to speak to.
Kostadis Roussos: And then she turns to the,
Kostadis Roussos: Moon Elf. Vushadi, please stand guard outside of the Sanctum, we wouldn't want anyone that the investigators don't want to come in… to come in.
Kostadis Roussos: Then pauses.
Kostadis Roussos: Now, I… feel free to move around, candle keeper without adjutant, whether that be Fembris or vouchardier. It's really important that you… it's very easy to get lost in the library.
Daz: On the down-low, not in, like, in front of her, but at some point, either after they leave or whatever, but, like…
Daz: Do… do we think the room is, like, bugged, or has, like, secret…
Daz: Like, the stuff we do in there is actually going to be private to us, or do we need…
Ben Pfaff: See if I have a discussion.
Daz: being shut off.
Ben Pfaff: up here.
Daz: I mean, it's nice and all to offer up that, like, we can use the office, and that they'll go fetch people, and all of those sorts of things, but it's also a little suspect.
Daz: Like, maybe they're involved, and somehow…
Ben Pfaff: It doesn't seem just friendly.
Daz: What's that, Ben?
Daz: It could be just friendly.
Ben Pfaff: I mean, it could be that they genuinely want to get to the bottom of this.
Daz: Yeah, it could be.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So before we go, I just need to make sure that… okay, so what exactly did you tell her about what you investigated?
Daz: I would say generalities, that we went and talked to all the people that we could talk to.
Daz: And we're forming an opinion on, what may have happened, and who… like, we have a couple suspects that we would like to pursue, due to perceiving that they may have a motivation, or that other people have pointed them out.
Daz: We're still…
Kostadis Roussos: She goes, as a…
Daz: That's exactly what the answer is.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, d-do… is there any… Any suspects in particular?
Joe Beda: We refuse to comment on ongoing.
Daz: Yeah, it's an ongoing investigation, and it's not, not proper for us to share that at this time.
Kostadis Roussos: Huh?
Kostadis Roussos: Well… Very well.
Kostadis Roussos: I, so, so I will… I… very well, okay. So, she, she then…
Kostadis Roussos: She then sits there and goes, was there nobody that you wished to start your investigation with?
Joe Beda: We're gonna talk to anybody who might be involved, so, you know,
Joe Beda: Not quite sure who we're gonna talk to next, but you shouldn't read into that.
Kostadis Roussos: Mmm…
Joe Beda: Where were you during the.
Daz: Like, I want to talk to Ms. Ms. Hollypocket.
Joe Beda: Irrelevant hours. I mean, like.
Kostadis Roussos: You guys talked to Ms. Holly Puckett, but just as a side note.
Daz: Mike? Yes?
Ben Pfaff: So.
Daz: Because we have part two. Nevermind.
Ben Pfaff: You know, there is somebody in our list of characters who seems to have the same priorities that we do. maybe that would be someone to interview to sort of get tips on what to do next, or their suspicions.
Kostadis Roussos: So that would be Kalan Strongbranch, right?
Ben Pfaff: It isn't… for some reason, there's no name on that entry. It just says, Fheminor Scrivenbark.
Kostadis Roussos: Doesn't have an entry.
Ben Pfaff: Well, they don't have a name in their entry. It's, on, looks like…
Kostadis Roussos: Let me see.
Gabe: Which part are you reading, Ben?
Ben Pfaff: I'm looking at Part 1.
Gabe: Go perform some…
Ben Pfaff: I guess it's page… 2?
Kostadis Roussos: What's it called?
Ben Pfaff: Toward the bottom, it just says Fheminor Scrivenbark.
Joe Beda: I also want to understand where Bookwyrm was before 9 AM.
Joe Beda: I wanna…
Kostadis Roussos: That was…
Joe Beda: Timeline of where she was.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, you want to interview her?
Joe Beda: I mean, she's… you know.
Kostadis Roussos: She's…
Joe Beda: Jason.
Joe Beda: So, available to be a suspect.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So let me just walk you through some of the…
Kostadis Roussos: Tricky, some of the choices you have to make.
Kostadis Roussos: Because it affects the… how the… how the murder investigation goes.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So… There are these 4 blocks of time.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: Which you can use to investigate or interview.
Joe Beda: Oh, we only get to interview or investigate 4 things?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: That's if you…
Joe Beda: Sounds like bullshit.
Kostadis Roussos: Come on, there's a time in the day, that's…
Joe Beda: I know, but, like, why do we get it, like, what's the… what's the hurry? Investigations take as long as they take.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, well.
Joe Beda: I mean…
Kostadis Roussos: What cross?
Joe Beda: Taxes have been investigated.
Kostadis Roussos: I didn't… hold on, I didn't say… No, no, no, no, no.
Joe Beda: Right now, they're gonna come out with their findings.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, hold on, I think my comment was not as, well understood.
Kostadis Roussos: What I meant to say was, there's a certain amount… the way the murder mystery works is things happened while the murder mystery… while you're doing… making choices.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Joe Beda: So, there are other events that'll happen contemporaneously with us doing the investigation.
Ben Pfaff: There'll be more murders.
Kostadis Roussos: I have no idea. So, that's always a possibility. So, as a result.
Kostadis Roussos: You… the question is, which, like, so what do you… so you should be thinking about, like.
Kostadis Roussos: what do I want to do at that time? Now, you can split up, in which case, you know, we will… you can have more interviews, but, you know, splitting the party has its positives and minuses.
Joe Beda: I like us sticking together, I just think it's more imposing to have all, like, you know, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10 of us show up in a room.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, I'm just… I just want to make sure, so you…
Joe Beda: I don't know about you guys, but, like…
Ben Pfaff: Well, I feel like at this point, we should start out the investigation together. Maybe at some point, we'll, you know, there'll be two people we want to go see at once.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: And so, the next, the most obvious question is, who do you want to interview first? Do you want to interview Sylvira Savikas? Do you want Daral Yashenti? Do you want to interview somebody completely else?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, maybe.
Daz: Well, Ben, who was it that you want, like, you were saying was lined up, and, like, we should talk to them, and maybe.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, let me go, I'll find out who they were, just, I realized the LLM did not do me a favor.
Gabe: That was the table of counselors. Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah. Yeah, one of the table of counselors was very anxious about that, I just don't… the LM did not write its name down, I just think that.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, yeah, so there's… the last one with the name is Kazryn Ntantani, and then the three below that don't have names listed.
Ben Pfaff: Or the four of them, actually, below that.
Kostadis Roussos: Kazryn Ntantani, a slender human female with black hair, gray hair, and heavy wrinkles around her eyes, has said, first you must find the murderer.
Ben Pfaff: Right, and then below Kazryn Ntantani is a bronze dragonborn counselor.
Kostadis Roussos: A formidable Alkrist. The gate warden needs to be dismissed with immediate effect. This happened on his watch.
Ben Pfaff: And then,
Ben Pfaff: Let's see, and then if I go down two, cells from that, I see Fheminor Scrivenbark, and that was the person I was curious about.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, so that was, that was, that was, Kazryn Ntantani.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, but… But, okay, they're listed twice in the table, wouldn't.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I think it's because they… the LLM got confused.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, sorry.
Ben Pfaff: Well,
Ben Pfaff: So it…
Kostadis Roussos: So just about… so what you remembered from the events, roll, what you remembered from the events is that
Kostadis Roussos: I'll lay A'lai Aivenmore.
Kostadis Roussos: was like, we must have the vote and restored leadership to the Candlekeep. There was a big debate over, like, who's gonna be run in charge of Candlekeep, because Janussi was in charge, alright?
Kostadis Roussos: Fheminor Scrivenbark, a dowdy female halfling, was like, Fheminor Scrivenbark, we must determine if Janussi made a Snape a successor.
Kostadis Roussos: Khazran Yantani was, first we must find the murderer. Tellez Avoste was, where is the gate warden with his report?
Kostadis Roussos: Alcrist was, throw the gate warden under the bus. The gate warden needs to be dismissed!
Kostadis Roussos: Bookwyrm was trying to calm everybody down.
Kostadis Roussos: Daral was, Why isn't Sylvira Savikas here?
Kostadis Roussos: So she wasn't at the, at the council meeting.
Ben Pfaff: And, and, okay, so Sylvira Savikas, also seems worth talking to. Did, did we learn anything, about…
Kostadis Roussos: So, you haven't… what you've learned from her was that she was, janusi's on-and-off girlfriend.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, that's right.
Gabe: Sorry, when you say that we delivered…
Ben Pfaff: I want to talk to her.
Gabe: Yeah, we haven't talked to her yet.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, right, but I'm just saying, yeah, so what you know is that she's his on-and-off girlfriend, and that apparently she showed up
Kostadis Roussos: You know, she walked around… Or somebody looking like her walked around…
Kostadis Roussos: In the middle of the night.
Gabe: someone impersonating her… Yes. Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: And the other person is Daral, whom you're getting was the one who gave him the book.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: The third question is, you might want to go look up the murder point… the poison.
Gabe: It may be poison, yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, the, you know, go investigate the substance and go into the library. Fembrick would be more than happy to drag you there.
Ben Pfaff: Okay, well, what if, what if a couple of us go look up the poison, and the others go to interview Sylvira Savikas?
Kostadis Roussos: Sounds good to me.
Ben Pfaff: Any other ideas?
Gabe: We got a sample of it, right?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I'm assuming you have a sample of it.
Ben Pfaff: How did we get a sample? Was it on something?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, it was on his fingers. Okay, alright.
Gabe: And his lip, too, right?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Joe Beda: I feel like physical evidence is more reliable than trying to parse who's lying and who's not, you know?
Kostadis Roussos: Always, always a good stratagem.
Joe Beda: But, you know, maybe that's from watching too much CSI, what do I know?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, somebody wants to go… who wants to go off to do the, the library thing?
Ben Pfaff: I'm happy to do the library research.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so you're gonna know how to…
Ben Pfaff: solid.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, sure. Alright, so you're gonna go off to the fall… you're gonna go off to the.
Ben Pfaff: Library.
Kostadis Roussos: To the library.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: Poison section, please.
Daz: We need to figure… we need to figure out, like, also, there's that other crime of, like, there's a missing part of, like, a book that should not be missing, and…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: We don't know when that happened, that could have happened… that… you're gonna have to talk to avene again, don't worry.
Daz: Yeah, I mean, that could have happened 100 years ago or something, but…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Daz: Seems suspicious, and maybe related.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: So, so we have one group going to go check for the poison.
Kostadis Roussos: If you want, does you want to go interview anyone?
Daz: problems.
Joe Beda: I just don't know.
Kostadis Roussos: I could…
Ben Pfaff: Well, I, I still think…
Joe Beda: Are there any monsters we can kill?
Kostadis Roussos: There will be.
Joe Beda: Are there any, like, you know, groups of enemies we can audit?
Daz: I'll go talk to Fheminor Scrivenbark… Fheminor Scrivenbark.
Daz: Figure out, like, why he was there, and what he was visiting for.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, you wanna go talk to him first? Alright.
Daz: It's, like, one of them to talk to, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Daz: I'm looking at the ones that have the least amount of time, or probably have the least amount to talk about, because sometimes those are the ones that have the most insight.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: And, Gabe, You guys gonna hang?
Gabe: Are we splitting up 4 ways, 2 ways, or 3 ways?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, it's up to you.
Joe Beda: Alright, let's go through the people and figure out who we think we want to interview most. So, Bookwyrm…
Joe Beda: Do we really think Bookwyrm might have done it? Do we want to give Bookwyrm the third degree?
Kostadis Roussos: So, one thing you do know is that if you were going to attack Bookwyrm,
Kostadis Roussos: Is that, I mean, she's more than happy, if you want to talk to her, she's more than happy to, but you better be careful if you're going to accuse her that you have really good facts.
Joe Beda: Right, well, I think we're… we want to know, we're pretty sure, before we accuse anybody.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes.
Gabe: I mean, the list at the end of the document has a pretty good set of people we should talk to, right?
Joe Beda: Dang it.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Gabe: Where are you picking up next?
Joe Beda: So, Daral?
Kostadis Roussos: This is the one with.
Joe Beda: It's too on the nose for it to be Daral. I don't think it's Daral.
Gabe: Yeah.
Joe Beda: I mean, playing the metagame, I don't think it's Daral.
Gabe: Agreed. He might know something, but I don't think it was him.
Joe Beda: sylvira… Again, it's someone wore her face, is what we're talking about.
Gabe: Right.
Joe Beda: I think the whole lantern aspect of it means that it probably wasn't them.
Gabe: Yeah, she might know something, but it probably wasn't her.
Joe Beda: Tell us…
Gabe: Let's see, what's the order of operations? It was…
Gabe: Feming more, and then Daral, and then we…
Kostadis Roussos: Yup.
Joe Beda: So, I think, Kalan Strongbranch, we gotta interview.
Gabe: Yeah, I'm more curious if he still has his other tower key.
Joe Beda: Yeah, the key is definitely a thread to pull on.
Gabe: but, Mike, if you're gonna talk to Fheminor Scrivenbark, however you say his name,
Gabe: One thing that we don't know is when this guy got beaten up, and so if he was already beat up at 8pm, that would be useful to understand.
Daz: Oh, yeah, yeah. Because he wasn't dead yet, but was he beat up?
Gabe: He was beat up before he was dead.
Daz: Yes.
Gabe: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Daz: And maybe if any of the missing stuff was… if he noticed it was in there or not in there.
Gabe: Yeah.
Gabe: And if he, you know, poisoned the guy when he visited, perchance.
Daz: Yeah, that would be useful for… to know, like, enjoy that?
Joe Beda: Okay, wait, wait, let's back up a little bit. So, Kalan said that they did speak with the dead, and that it didn't work.
Joe Beda: Right?
Joe Beda: And that didn't work because of Y.
Gabe: the devil… the imposter devil lady, presumably did it first, meaning it locked out Speak from the Dead for however many hours.
Kostadis Roussos: Cheers.
Gabe: Days, sorry.
Joe Beda: Okay, so…
Joe Beda: Do we know that for sure? I mean, if Kalan's just saying, hey, I did it, but didn't do it?
Joe Beda: I mean, we can't… we don't have Speak with the Dead, so it's not like we can verify, but like…
Joe Beda: Whether or not Speak for the Dead actually really was done is hearsay.
Joe Beda: It's also heresy, but…
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Joe Beda: I mean…
Joe Beda: Again, it doesn't feel like that's probably the answer, playing the metagame, I'm just saying that, like, if we wanna…
Joe Beda: So… Be as thorough as possible.
Kostadis Roussos: One of the things that, one of the vibes that you did get from Bookwyrm, was that…
Kostadis Roussos: She definitely wanted you guys to go talk to Sylvira Savikas.
Ben Pfaff: I think it makes a lot of sense. Somebody was impersonating her, and she might have an idea who…
Daz: Alright, well, let's go talk to him.
Joe Beda: But who the hell knows? We don't know anything.
Kostadis Roussos: And the other person… the other one that's interesting, just because, in case you've forgotten, is that your best guess… I mean, like, the guy got… so…
Kostadis Roussos: Daral gave him a book and then took a book.
Gabe: Right.
Joe Beda: Right, but, like, again, I think so much evidence points to Daral, I don't think it's him.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Joe Beda: You're saying, it's like… And we have… I don't think the cat did it.
Joe Beda: And the cat has no reason to lie.
Gabe: Wow. Except… except it's a cat.
Kostadis Roussos: The tickles.
Joe Beda: I know.
Joe Beda: But… The cat said that, Janussi was alive when Daral left, so… Right. Unless I came back.
Gabe: Well, I mean, theoretically, the poison could have been in the book, right? Like, he did open the book, because the wrapper was in the trash, or whatever.
Joe Beda: Right, but at the end of the day, I'm pretty sure that the person that killed him is the one that took the heart.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, so you're gonna say something, Ben?
Ben Pfaff: Oh, did we touch the book?
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, the book had been all… the book had been missing.
Kostadis Roussos: So it was the… it was the golden comp… it was the golden ass?
Ben Pfaff: Right, right, right.
Kostadis Roussos: And it was missing.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, I have a, I have a question. Sapphires were stolen as a spell component. Are those expensive or rare?
Kostadis Roussos: They are expensive, not particularly rare.
Ben Pfaff: Are they, expensive enough to kill someone over?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, so, Raul, so one of the things that Daz has figured out, which has gotten him very interested, is that somebody walked in there to steal something very personal.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: And so, what you do know is that Janussi had one of the two keys to the high towers.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? And so whoever walked in there, one person knew to take… some knew to take the locket, and another person went through the safe.
Ben Pfaff: Bookwyrm have the other one?
Kostadis Roussos: No, Kalan Strongbranch has the other one.
Ben Pfaff: Okay.
Gabe: I mean, if you're going to the library anyway, Ben, maybe you can check to see if sapphires are significant, either with respect to the High Tower somehow, or a particular spell.
Ben Pfaff: That's a good idea. Huh?
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Ben Pfaff: Yeah, I will include in my research,
Ben Pfaff: Spells that sapphires are particular to.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Joe, what was your… do you have any plan?
Joe Beda: I don't fucking know, man.
Joe Beda: Alright, so… Who's… Going where?
Kostadis Roussos: Mike's going to Feminoor.
Daz: Yeah.
Daz: That was the thought. I mean, you want to try Silv… Silver?
Kostadis Roussos: Sylvira Savikas?
Joe Beda: Who's, who's gonna interview Kalan?
Ben Pfaff: Well, who do we have left?
Kostadis Roussos: Results here.
Gabe: Yeah?
Joe Beda: Alright, I'll do… Sylvira and somebody else can do…
Gabe: Okay, 4 ways.
Joe Beda: Talos and Kalan, right? I mean, like, we got, yeah.
Gabe: account, alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay. So, as you… so the only downside is you can't… you can keep talking with each other, but you can't help or roll better on your… your scores, just to be clear.
Kostadis Roussos: You can keep talking to each other, whatever, but… since you separated…
Joe Beda: Since we're separated, if we roll, we got what we got.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, just want to be clear, alright?
Gabe: Oh, wait, who gets Glabbagool?
Kostadis Roussos: You do, he's… he's a permanently attached…
Gabe: Okay, see, see, I'm not rolling on my own, then.
Kostadis Roussos: Glabbagool is convinced he is going to be a shadow monk.
Gabe: Given time.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, okay. He's got a question, man. He's got a question.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so, let's start with you, femmendor is really excited. He's like, that is, that is wonderful, and just as you're stepping outside, Kalan Strongbranch steps out of a doorway in the corridor and presses a small brass key into Grygum's hand.
Ben Pfaff: Is this the key to the library?
Kostadis Roussos: He goes…
Kostadis Roussos: Whatever Brookworm is telling you, listen for what she isn't. The High Tower has two keys. Janussi wore one, I held the other. I have given it now to someone who is not me. If I and I do not see you tomorrow, do not look for me at my post.
Ben Pfaff: You're worried that you'll be killed for the key?
Kostadis Roussos: He looks to the left, he looks to the right. It is best that if I am killed, the key not be found.
Ben Pfaff: Oh…
Joe Beda: Seems to…
Ben Pfaff: It's clean.
Joe Beda: him a little bit, unless he ever… what's in the High Tower?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, the High Tower is the entrance to all of the super magical artifacts that every evil entity in the entire world would love.
Joe Beda: Okay.
Joe Beda: And do we know at this particular moment whether it's been compromised or not?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, you have one of the two keys, so no.
Joe Beda: Well, no, but, like, he might have used the key, and then come and, like.
Kostadis Roussos: You don't need it.
Joe Beda: the dude.
Kostadis Roussos: No, you don't. But if you went into the High Tower, it would have been noticed. It's not like, you know, you walk into the High Tower on a Monday.
Joe Beda: Okay, I'm just saying, like, if it's up a, you know, flight of stairs that nobody ever goes up, right?
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, no.
Ben Pfaff: There are people watching it, even though they don't have the key.
Kostadis Roussos: Exactly.
Ben Pfaff: Alright.
Joe Beda: So that seems to clear him.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Ben Pfaff: So, one of.
Joe Beda: Assuming that's.
Kostadis Roussos: And by the way, he hands it off to you, and then walks away.
Gabe: No, no, no.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm just saying, like, you gotta…
Ben Pfaff: Well, if, if…
Ben Pfaff: So, I… why… I ask him, you know, somebody's already stolen a key, why would they steal the second one?
Gabe: No, you need both.
Kostadis Roussos: Both.
Gabe: Power with two.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, that's right, it's, one of those,
Joe Beda: It's a war game swapper, launching the missile type of situation. Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Gabe: So, before you go, wait, like, did you find anything in your initial investigation? Do you have any idea who might be behind this? Any clues?
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, An interview with Kalan Strongbranch.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, I will… I will have you note that I was… I was wanted off the case.
Gabe: Yep.
Kostadis Roussos: And then…
Kostadis Roussos: He looks at you and goes, And what are your motives, and why are you here in Candlekeep?
Kostadis Roussos: And why should we be trusting you?
Gabe: You… purely accidental. We have no particular involvement here. Someone put us up to this. We are happy to not get involved.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, oh, the nature of fate.
Kostadis Roussos: The nature of fate is such that individuals such as you, who have no interest in any of this, should be brought here. Oh, this is definitely… this is definitely… something going on. Well, I will keep searching on my own, as I have been dismissed from the job.
Gabe: I mean, but we've been given the job, you can just come with us.
Kostadis Roussos: No! The bookworm has made it clear that I am to be nowhere near this case, officially.
Gabe: Officially. See, there you go.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Ben Pfaff: Unofficially, may we, may we rely on you?
Kostadis Roussos: It goes… He goes, well.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, well, I did know.
Kostadis Roussos: A few th- I did pick up a few things.
Kostadis Roussos: And since you guys are… appeal to his ego, he's really good.
Kostadis Roussos: Hmm, I often juxtapose mundane observations with lotty physical ruminations on the nature of order, chaos, fate, and futility.
Kostadis Roussos: And in that rumination of mine, I did notice something. The first was, the keeper was poisoned by something he touched or held in his left hand, which interacted with his saliva.
Gabe: The black stuff, yes, we saw that.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. The second thing is, I'm sure the, and he points to Grygum, the cleric, of Bahamut.
Kostadis Roussos: Who has caused quite the stir, has, noticed that the heart was hacked out.
Kostadis Roussos: But did you know it was hacked out after he was dead? Most likely to make it harder to resurrect the corpse?
Gabe: Yeah, we got that.
Ben Pfaff: We've, we've told… been told.
Kostadis Roussos: And then he goes, finally goes, the murder… now, and did you know the following? The murderer was a magic user, able to circumvent arcade and mundane locks.
Gabe: Hmm… no, how do you know that?
Kostadis Roussos: Again, circumvent arcane and mundane locks. Knock spells. Of the highest order.
Ben Pfaff: But, but what.
Joe Beda: Is this because of the safe?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Ben Pfaff: I see.
Gabe: Wait, you know the murderer is the one who opened the safe?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, he pauses and goes, well, this would… clearly he was killed to steal the key.
Gabe: But he was wearing the key.
Kostadis Roussos: No, remember, he had the necklace, and it was gone, the locket was gone?
Gabe: Yeah, I thought it was in the lockup.
Kostadis Roussos: No, the locket was missing. Sorry, maybe I misunderstood.
Gabe: Ruh.
Joe Beda: So the key was not held around his neck.
Kostadis Roussos: No, he… so his neck… sorry, I just… maybe this is, that never got communicated correctly. You found Janussi, and you found evidence of the chain around his neck, but the locket was gone.
Gabe: Right, someone took it, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: And the key was in the locket.
Gabe: Right, I got that, but how does that.
Joe Beda: What does that have to do with the safe, then?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, this is where Daz's observation was that whoever went looking for the lock… it seems… it almost seems like there was two different people looking for the lock… the locket, the key.
Kostadis Roussos: Somebody who knew where to find it, and somebody who didn't.
Daz: The people looking through the, the people looking through the, the.
Kostadis Roussos: The safe.
Daz: Hey, probably didn't know where to look for it.
Gabe: Which… but that implies that the murderer isn't the one who opened the safe.
Kostadis Roussos: Mo.
Kostadis Roussos: That's information you can tell Kalan, he hasn't made that inference. I said, Daz had made that inference.
Gabe: So it's not that he knows something we don't, it's just that he's concluding that this is.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes, yes. He's concluding…
Joe Beda: How do we know that the key was in the locket that was around his neck?
Kostadis Roussos: Kalan pulls out his own locket.
Gabe: Which is now empty, and therefore doesn't prove anything.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Joe Beda: Kalan Strongbranch thought that whoever was… murdered him I'm very confused.
Kostadis Roussos: Kalan and… Kalan Strongbranch and Janussi both had lockets.
Joe Beda: Okay, can we ask Kalan Strongbranch to open his locket and show it to us?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, it shows it.
Joe Beda: the Q.
Gabe: It's time.
Kostadis Roussos: 20 now.
Joe Beda: Yeah, because this could be the key from Janussi, and like, you know what I'm saying?
Kostadis Roussos: No, that's it, that's a good point.
Ben Pfaff: Is it okay?
Gabe: He doesn't have a following.
Joe Beda: Game, yeah.
Gabe: The key was in the locket, and the locket's missing.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Gabe: Why would he then assume that the murderer would also go through the safe looking for the key?
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, he didn't. He didn't.
Kostadis Roussos: Yep, oh, okay.
Gabe: Oh, murder.
Kostadis Roussos: Sorry.
Kostadis Roussos: Kalan Strongbranch… Kalan is making an assumption it was one person.
Gabe: Sure.
Ben Pfaff: But it could have been two separate to the crimes.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, it could have been two separate crimes, that's my only point.
Gabe: I mean, okay, I'll just ask him. So, why do you think that the murderer is the same person who rifled through the safe? There were, like, 4 different people in and out of that apartment.
Kostadis Roussos: He pauses, he goes.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, He goes, I don't know.
Kostadis Roussos: What I thought, what I thought, but now that you bring it up, perhaps I was a little bit too hasty, perhaps it was two different people.
Gabe: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Perhaps it was two different people. He pauses and looks at you. You know what I suspect.
Kostadis Roussos: I suspect that one of the great readers is the murderer, and believes that either Bookwyrm is trying to protect them, or that someone convinced Bookwyrm to fire him in order to protect themselves.
Gabe: One of the readers, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: And then he pauses. I believe you're only being employed, so you're likely to bungle the case, or else be silent if you do happen upon the right scent.
Kostadis Roussos: You don't matter.
Kostadis Roussos: You're outsiders.
Gabe: Yeah.
Joe Beda: And I don't doubt that maybe they hired us because they thought we were gonna screw it up. Like, yeah, I'll give you that.
Kostadis Roussos: He's quite convinced, and with that, he says, unless you have anything else to do, I need to go find out the killers. I can't rely on you, and…
Kostadis Roussos: starts to walk away.
Gabe: Just to point out the obvious here, we've already learned more than you knew and corrected one of your assumptions. Would it not be in our interest to collaborate?
Kostadis Roussos: He thinks about it. He says, how about this? Later this evening, after I've done my investigations, we'll sync up again and collect, share information.
Gabe: I hope you actually used the word sync up, that makes me happy.
Kostadis Roussos: You know?
Gabe: Yeah, it's surprising.
Joe Beda: Come back and we'll double-click on the details.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, what he says is, how about this? Why don't we all go off and do offline chat.
Gabe: Good.
Kostadis Roussos: Like, have offline meetings, and come back and have a meeting where we go over all of our findings, you know, in a group setting where we'll examine everything one by one.
Joe Beda: Meanwhile, let's take this offline.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. Can…
Ben Pfaff: Can we divide this into work streams?
Kostadis Roussos: Actually, he says that. I think we need to divide it into five work streams. I'll take one, I'll go do my private work stream, and the four of you could do your work streams, and then we'll meet up in a few hours and see what progress we've made.
Ben Pfaff: And, and, merge, merge all the,
Kostadis Roussos: Merge all the things. Alright.
Gabe: And, sorry, just before you leave, so you can clearly cast Speak with Dead, right?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Gabe: Okay, do you have any other spells of relevance that might help us, should we… should the need arise? Something about truth detection, or location, or anything in that genre?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, if such a spell should become necessary, I suppose I could help you with that.
Gabe: Okay, so if we suspect someone is lying to us, you could help sort that out?
Kostadis Roussos: Of course I could!
Gabe: Wonderful.
Kostadis Roussos: But then he pauses it. But if you expect me to cast that spell on a,
Kostadis Roussos: What's the word?
Kostadis Roussos: If you… if you do expect me to find,
Kostadis Roussos: If you do expect me to find… then he pauses, he goes, anyway, I need to go,
Kostadis Roussos: I need to go make… do my own research.
Kostadis Roussos: And, and yes, perhaps…
Kostadis Roussos: Perhaps if we meet there, perhaps when we get there, we will,
Kostadis Roussos: We will get there. However, Let me see…
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so I actually… okay, so he then, before he goes, but since we're in the process of exchanging information, let me just share with you what hap… what I saw, what happened. So, it's 8 AM, it's the end-of-year meeting with Janussi. Janussi has his, you know, annual one-on-ones with everybody.
Kostadis Roussos: Go over the…
Joe Beda: to get murdered. I didn't want to kill myself during those annual 10 months, but okay.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, it was 8 AM, and I told the Keeper of Candlekeep that we need more watchers if it is to be secure from outside threats. He rejected my proposal.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: Then, he says at 10.15, he visited Sylvira Savikas in her chamber.
Kostadis Roussos: I went to see her for advice on a cosmological question that was bothering me.
Kostadis Roussos: He then…
Kostadis Roussos: He then said he returned to the Chamber of Lost Lore. After seeing to my duties, I continued with my private research. In fact, I am heading there right now.
Kostadis Roussos: And, that's all, that's all he had to say.
Gabe: So… Do you know about the shapeshifter? Or the impersonator?
Kostadis Roussos: Hold on, wait, wait, wait, that was what happened the day before the murder, and on the day of the murder. After hearing of the alarm, the gate warden arrived at the crime scene shortly after 8 AM and made a brief inspection. He ordered the chamber to be cordoned off and posted a watcher to ensure no one interfered with the emergency. He then declared a state of emergency and personally went to oversee the deployment of additional watchers in key areas that Kendall keeps in her wards, including the doubling of the guard at the High Tower Library.
Kostadis Roussos: And you asked, what did you ask?
Gabe: In his investigation of the murder scene, and just general research, is he aware that someone was pretending to be Sylvira Savikas, however you say her name?
Kostadis Roussos: Sylvira.
Gabe: So, Sylvira Savikas.
Kostadis Roussos: He pauses and says, no, I did not… that is new information. He pauses and looks at you. You are very good at this.
Gabe: Well, we're trying.
Kostadis Roussos: He pauses and goes, perhaps bookworms, or whoever poisoned bookworms I name to me,
Kostadis Roussos: Is, is… will be acutely… will be very disappointed in you.
Gabe: That's the hope, I guess.
Kostadis Roussos: That's about as close as you're gonna get to have him saying good work.
Gabe: Very high praise. Okay, given that you're at risk of being killed over the key you don't have anymore, just watch your back. Keep in mind there are people who can change their form or shapeshift or whatever.
Kostadis Roussos: He looks at you as if you've told him, you know, like, I didn't become the chief gatekeeper of Candlekeep.
Gabe: I'm just saying…
Kostadis Roussos: Sleeping on Alright, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, Grygum.
Ben Pfaff: All right.
Kostadis Roussos: You head… you head off to the library, yes?
Ben Pfaff: Yes, I, I do, and,
Ben Pfaff: So, is there a, like, a poison section?
Kostadis Roussos: Absolutely.
Ben Pfaff: books.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, so you arrive at the… so you arrive,
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Guess there is.
Kostadis Roussos: Where is it?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so… That's alright.
Joe Beda: I'm gonna go to the restroom, we'll be right back.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, no good.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, okay, hold on, let me just find the… sorry, I need to find the reference. My apologies.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm sorry, I had that information. Alright, so you head off to the library, and while you're in the library…
Kostadis Roussos: Fine.
Kostadis Roussos: You, you, There is… there is a… Fembris takes you to a… a…
Kostadis Roussos: at Floratheka, a subsection of the Pavilion Natural Naturalis, inside of the Great Library, which is dedicated to plants, herbs, and other flora.
Kostadis Roussos: So… Grygum, roll some investigation checks.
Ben Pfaff: Yes. And do I… do I have access to, whatever sort of laboratory I might need?
Ben Pfaff: Hmm.
Kostadis Roussos: If you need it later, yes, of course.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, I rolled a 17.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, you did? Well, guess what? You were, you swiftly turn up a tome called Famous Flowers and Fungi by Archibald Roots, junior son of Archibald Roots Sr.
Kostadis Roussos: Do you open the book?
Ben Pfaff: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: The opening of the book, it discusses the legendary gnome botanist and explorer, and it talks a lot about his adventures, and his explorations, and his collection of botany over the years, and in addition to conveying all of the above information.
Kostadis Roussos: The important part being his life story. It also notes that when midnight tears are mixed with the sap of a certain fey wild tree, they lose their toxic properties and create a powerful pain relief solution that all good physicians should
Kostadis Roussos: Stock.
Kostadis Roussos: And it is a… and he says, but other than that, it is a highly toxic… toxic pale ochre dust made from pollen of a plant usually only found in the feywild.
Ben Pfaff: So, let's… hmm… so that means that it's, it's unusual, and only a few would have access to it.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Ben Pfaff: That, that might suggest.
Kostadis Roussos: And then, but there's one additional thing he says, that this poison… the creature that ingests this poison suffers no effect until the stroke of midnight.
Ben Pfaff: That is a good match for, for the… what actually happened. He died at roughly midnight.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: So it has the nice property that it… you consume it.
Kostadis Roussos: You're all hunky-dory, and then you're dead at midnight.
Joe Beda: What's…
Ben Pfaff: time zone.
Kostadis Roussos: Local.
Joe Beda: How do they account for daylight savings time? Did you ever…
Kostadis Roussos: Hopefully, thankfully? Are we talking?
Joe Beda: an astronomical midnight? I mean…
Ben Pfaff: Did you ever see, the Schwarzenegger movie End of Days that came out in 1999?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes. I heard of it, sorry. I heard of it.
Ben Pfaff: Someone tells Schwarzenegger that the world is going to end at midnight on December 31st, blah blah blah, and his response is, Eastern Standard Time?
Joe Beda: I'm just, like, I'm wondering whether this thing has, like, an NTP connection or something.
Ben Pfaff: It's magic.
Kostadis Roussos: It's magic. I know, right? Yes. I will come up with a complete theory as to why it works this way for next session. Challenge accepted.
Ben Pfaff: It uses MTP, Magic Time Protocol.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright. So yeah, so it…
Kostadis Roussos: So, the food, those can be delivered in food or in liquid.
Ben Pfaff: And… Let's see… What did…
Ben Pfaff: So he could have been given this at any point during that day.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Ben Pfaff: So, it… what… whatever we find… whatever we found there isn't necessarily.
Kostadis Roussos: But you do know something else, though, that it has to be in food or in liquid, and the one thing you do know is that somehow, some liquid got on his finger that was black.
Kostadis Roussos: And then he did this.
Daz: Huh? Yeah.
Joe Beda: Is there something about this… this poison turning black later? Do we know that the black was the poison?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes.
Joe Beda: So as it becomes effective at midnight, It turns black.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Joe Beda: Okay, so, whatever…
Kostadis Roussos: Well, no, no, no, actually, no, that's not true. It stays palaker, so whatever the colorant that it… so… so think of it this way.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm gonna give you a big hint here, guys, and then I'm just gonna let you roll some of the.
Ben Pfaff: investigations.
Kostadis Roussos: He was doing this.
Joe Beda: Okay, so somebody doped up the, the book.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Gabe: Yeah, the assumption is pretty…
Ben Pfaff: pages.
Kostadis Roussos: Right, and so what prob… so, yeah, so if you're… if you think about it for a moment.
Kostadis Roussos: His fingers are black.
Joe Beda: Okay, so now I really want to talk to Daral and see the book.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay.
Joe Beda: I think we should definitely talk to Daral, we should see the book, we should see if there's any evidence on the book that the poison was in the book.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, then let's go talk to Daral. Thorin?
Joe Beda: What do you guys think? Are you guys on board?
Gabe: Fair enough.
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: So, who's gonna go? All three of you, or one of you?
Joe Beda: I… Like, see, my investigation is plus 2.
Daz: My passive investigation's 23, so I'll go.
Kostadis Roussos: You're gonna go?
Joe Beda: Yeah, you're definitely, well, you're, you're the Poir.
Daz: If he's lying or something, maybe I'll notice, you know.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Joe Beda: My favorite part of watching the early Paul Rowe is they had this sidekick who was this, like, I don't know, like.
Joe Beda: ex-army officer who was just totally useless, but he just liked hanging out with them. And you watch the episode, you're like, are they gay together? But I don't think they were. I don't know, maybe they were.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Fembric Lancer… Fembris is very excited, and tracks you, and sends, and he says, well, I will go find Daral and summon him you for an interview.
Kostadis Roussos: And he eventually tracks him down, at the hearth, where he has met
Kostadis Roussos: my… he eventually tracks him down at the hearth, where the request is met… your request is met by a two-word reply. And so Daral…
Kostadis Roussos: I inform… and so Fembris informs you that you have to go to the hearth to talk to him.
Kostadis Roussos: He's not coming to you.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Kostadis Roussos: So, presume you show up, you go to meet him, and he's drunk and in good spirits.
Joe Beda: This is Daral.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, look, it's Farron's most famous detectives! Bookwyrm's brown-nosers, I'm going to call you, because you like to…
Ben Pfaff: That's not our… that's not our chosen name.
Kostadis Roussos: You like to stick your nose in other people's business, Daral finds his own jokes. He starts to laugh. Light it up, guys, we seem to have gotten off on the wrong foot. Barman, a brown of spice brandies for our beloved brown nosers. My treat.
Ben Pfaff: Huh.
Daz: So my passive investigation says this guy's an ass.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, he is an ass.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay, so, your passive investigation and, you know, your background as a drow concludes that one of the reasons you might be such a good mood is because usually when you punch the big boss.
Kostadis Roussos: You know, the drow, you would be killed.
Daz: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: for failing to kill the big boss, right? I mean, it's just embarrassing.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? You and your entire bloodline would be slaughtered because, you know, you went for the big boss and missed.
Kostadis Roussos: But you've been told, you've noticed in the overbright, people in other parts of the underbark, people get fired, or lose their position.
Daz: Right, right.
Kostadis Roussos: So he might be… he might be very happy that, you know, He's not getting fired.
Ben Pfaff: In this sort of place, the Academic Senate will undoubtedly conduct a meeting.
Kostadis Roussos: Several meetings. But without Janussi being alive, you know, maybe nobody has to know what happened.
Joe Beda: Or maybe he's just happy because, like, he finally did it, he finally killed the person that was, you know.
Joe Beda: Holding him back.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, he sits down to you, and he says, what would you like to know?
Kostadis Roussos: So you could start with, what, the end of the year meeting, dinner, etc.
Joe Beda: I think we start lighthearted, like, you know, when was the last time you saw him, try and catch him in a lie, that type of thing.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, oh, that Philemon? He goes, I had my end-of-the-year meeting with him at 11. That Philemon wanted me to sell off priceless works of poetry to fund that worthless toome some demonic plains of existence no sane person will ever exist!
Kostadis Roussos: He said something about disturbing treads in the underdark, and so on and so forth, but I… that was just nonsense. Just to please his horned tart. That's…
Kostadis Roussos: Sylvira.
Kostadis Roussos: Jeez.
Kostadis Roussos: Tieflings, they have horns, that's right, she's a horn.
Ben Pfaff: They're, they're, they're known for not flying.
Kostadis Roussos: You're right, right. He is not fit to be keeper of the tomes, and uneducated bookseller is what he is. What do you assign? Rather, haha, may the gods bless whoever bumped him off.
Kostadis Roussos: And then he pauses.
Kostadis Roussos: After supper, yes, I went back to my chamber for some quiet reflection, but that man's impudence swayed heavily on my mind. Keeper or not, he needed to be set straight about few things. When I arrived at his chamber, the shameless hypocrite was embraced in one of the very books he'd have me sell!
Joe Beda: Which book was this?
Kostadis Roussos: The one I gave him as a gift!
Ben Pfaff: Oh, what?
Joe Beda: So wait, wait, so you gave him a gift, and he's reading it, and you're upset about this?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, because he thought, I… I… he was planning to sell the books that he even enjoyed! Think about it! Think about it of the absurdity of if he really thought they were as worthless, he should have discarded it and not read it at all.
Joe Beda: Well, what is the purpose of books? Is it for enjoyment or for passing on serious knowledge?
Kostadis Roussos: If we are in Candlekeep Library.
Joe Beda: Yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: Lead is the only purpose they have.
Ben Pfaff: The sort of person where the purpose of a book is to keep it.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, no, the only purpose of the candle… the only purpose is to… is for the library to… is… is to get for information.
Kostadis Roussos: for knowledge.
Joe Beda: So, a book that is purely enjoyable is not worthwhile, because that's not about knowledge, that's about entertainment.
Kostadis Roussos: Not entertainment itself is knowledge. I didn't realize you were a scholar! Grygum.
Joe Beda: I'm just saying.
Kostadis Roussos: Like, at the end of the day, like, you know.
Joe Beda: Should the library keep the old AOL CDs, is my thought, right?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, yeah.
Kostadis Roussos: So he hands you…
Joe Beda: AOL you talk about.
Kostadis Roussos: He says, I'll have to know that the Astral Organizer library has been a productive part of… he says, you're just yanking my chain.
Joe Beda: Is that a phrase?
Kostadis Roussos: The Astral Organizing Library? Yes. It's the AOL you just.
Joe Beda: No, no, Yankee, Yankee.
Joe Beda: Why is the Astral Organizing Library?
Ben Pfaff: Fantastic.
Joe Beda: Exactly.
Kostadis Roussos: There was a… it was the companion device.
Kostadis Roussos: It was the companion disc of the Astral Organizing Library. There were a series of astral discs. It was completely worthless. It was great, it was very popular at its time. People would go there and read it with devotion, trying to understand the deeper secrets.
Ben Pfaff: Well, they could read it for 25 hours free per month.
Kostadis Roussos: Exactly, and then their souls were desperately sucked in. It was quite terrible. There was a whole cult… okay, anyway, alright, then he said.
Joe Beda: Sorry, anyway, yeah.
Ben Pfaff: In fact, the yanking of a chain does play a role in this, this affair.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, well, I will tell you this, I felt I had no choice but to deprive him of the pleasure he wishes to deprive Candlekeep, and so I took back my book. He took exception to this and sat upon me like a common thug. In defending myself, I may have caught him lightly on the nose.
Joe Beda: Where… where's the, this book now?
Kostadis Roussos: Where is this book now?
Ben Pfaff: Did you, return it to your shelves?
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: He, he goes, oh!
Kostadis Roussos: Hell.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, I have it right here!
Kostadis Roussos: He pulls it out.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so…
Joe Beda: We're gonna be taking this as evidence, don't worry, you'll get it.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, no, he goes, I'll have you not. He goes, I'll have you not. I was reading it! And then he takes his finger and starts flicking through the pages.
Ben Pfaff: do we notice any change?
Kostadis Roussos: Whoa.
Gabe: Not till midnight.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, I'll tell you the keeper's assault left me rather shaken, but he then proceeds to read a funny passage from the book and starts laughing hysterically.
Kostadis Roussos: And then he goes, so I decided to head to the hearth to try and calm down a little bit. If I had the Quill and papyrus on me, I would have penned my resignation right there and then.
Ben Pfaff: I, I read my scroll of detect magic.
Kostadis Roussos: There's no magic here.
Joe Beda: Would it have detected any of the sort of latent poisoning.
Kostadis Roussos: Plus, you're not here, plus you're not here.
Gabe: Okay, is there any way.
Joe Beda: We can figure out whether the book actually is the poison or not.
Ben Pfaff: I suppose poison is not magic, or…
Kostadis Roussos: Well, Grygum has learned how one can detect whether the book has poison.
Gabe: But he's not here.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, he's not here.
Kostadis Roussos: Then, he starts laughing, he, like, flicks through several pages. You know that half of the great readers would do anything to get their greasy hands on the top job, including killing the incumbent?
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, Tell us thought he was the first in line last time around, the deluded old Git, and that ally Avonmore is spoiling to rule the roost, the preying cock, and Fheminor Scrivenbark was seething about the dissolution of her precious shits. Don't be fooled by her stature, she has a steely nature.
Kostadis Roussos: And don't rule out Bookwyrm, he takes a shot. There's no telling what's going on in her lizard brain.
Kostadis Roussos: You're not there, right?
Kostadis Roussos: Zalthir? Are you with…
Gabe: I don't think, I don't know where I am, because I talked to Kalan Strongbranch, and then…
Kostadis Roussos: So, well, we'll assume you're not here. Okay. So he goes, he makes a comment about Elizabeth, they're not like us, you know, they're cold-blooded, they eat their young if they're hungry, murdering crowbait-like Janussi, that's… nothing.
Joe Beda: And I stand up and I say, like, some of my good friends are lizards.
Joe Beda: What are you trying to say here?
Kostadis Roussos: He goes.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, he suddenly realizes what he said. I didn't… you know, this is just more of… barroom chatter, nothing to be…
Kostadis Roussos: I… this is you…
Joe Beda: Alright, so, playing the metagame again.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Joe Beda: just, like, This whole thing is about…
Joe Beda: you know, the underdark, and if it's just a squabble amongst academics, that doesn't play into the larger narrative. So, whatever's happening.
Joe Beda: it's something about getting access to the books and the, sort of, you know, the High Tower that is going to impact the Underdark thing. So it's… my gut here is that the key…
Joe Beda: Is the… is the thing that we should focus on.
Ben Pfaff: Was… was anybody coming up for tenure?
Joe Beda: Well, you know what they say about academia? The fights are so vicious because the stakes are so low.
Gabe: I mean, I'm not in this conversation, but it would be super helpful to know where he got the book in the first place.
Joe Beda: That's a good point.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay. I mean, you can help each other, you just can't roll dice, right? So, it's up to you.
Gabe: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, you can talk to each other, it's just the dice can't be rolled, only one of you can roll the dice. Alright, so you're gonna go with that question?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, he goes, well, it's been in my collection for years, why do you ask?
Joe Beda: Why'd you decide to give him this particular book?
Kostadis Roussos: Well, it was one of my favorites!
Kostadis Roussos: I was trying to make a point, you understand?
Joe Beda: What was the point?
Kostadis Roussos: The point was that my books should not be sold so he could buy some ritual materials for Sylvira, his…
Kostadis Roussos: Then he throws… he makes yet another series of inappropriate, racially tinged remarks.
Joe Beda: So, you gave them the book with the goal of what?
Kostadis Roussos: Of him reading it and realizing what a fool he would be to have me sell my books.
Joe Beda: And yet you were upset when you found him reading the book that you wanted him to read.
Kostadis Roussos: He goes, it was a long day. I was drugged.
Kostadis Roussos: I was upset. I don't know what I was thinking.
Ben Pfaff: This guy doesn't seem to be the model of consistency.
Joe Beda: I mean, if you didn't know what you were thinking.
Joe Beda: Perhaps things got away from you, and one thing led to another, and you ripped out his heart?
Joe Beda: I mean, you know, we've all been there, let's be honest.
Daz: I mean, who hasn't had that.
Ben Pfaff: No, no.
Joe Beda: I remember this.
Ben Pfaff: The sort of behavior that we see in the dungeon, that isn't the sort of behavior we expect in the ivory tower.
Kostadis Roussos: He's, he's like, look, They wanted the top job.
Joe Beda: Who is they?
Kostadis Roussos: He… he gave you the names, I will just give them to you again.
Kostadis Roussos: Well, she says bookworm, for one.
Kostadis Roussos: But… here I have the list still done. I have the document right here. He goes,
Kostadis Roussos: Who wanted, who wanted this? It was, he goes, tellez thought he was first in line.
Kostadis Roussos: A'lai Aivenmore was… A'lai Aivenmore, Feminoor, and Bookwyrm.
Kostadis Roussos: And what you do know is that in the meeting, it was A'lai Aivenmore who was very anxious that they picked the next leader.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, that was your first round of interviews.
Kostadis Roussos: You know?
Gabe: Joe, sorry, Joe, are you gonna tell them that we think the book is probably poisoned? Like, we thought that before you left. That was already the theory.
Joe Beda: Yeah, I think it would say, like, there's evidence that, that Janussi, or whatever his name was.
Gabe: He's French, whatever.
Joe Beda: You know, that he was poisoned, and it looks like the poison was transferred based on some book he was reading, and it might have been that he was licking his finger, and then touching the book, and then licking his finger and touching the book.
Ben Pfaff: So, if this guy dies tonight at midnight, it's probably not him.
Kostadis Roussos: I'm just saying…
Joe Beda: And, like, what's his reaction as we say this?
Kostadis Roussos: He drops the book.
Joe Beda: Okay.
Kostadis Roussos: It's like, Well, you've got to do something!
Ben Pfaff: Wha…
Joe Beda: Well, we did want to take the book into evidence.
Ben Pfaff: Why don't you recommend?
Joe Beda: You said that you needed to keep it.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, you can… you've got two choices. You can either use your… you've got a cleric who can cast restoration spells, cure poison.
Kostadis Roussos: You also have Dawnbringer standing right next to you, who can also cast Lesser Restoration and Cure Poison.
Ben Pfaff: But I… if they bring them to me, then I can tell whether it actually is poison.
Ben Pfaff: Because I have the.
Kostadis Roussos: So you could just tell them to hang out with you guys.
Joe Beda: Yeah, I think we should do that, because, like, see if he's poisoned or not, because if we can tell that he's poisoned, then we know that the book was a thing, and then we trace that book and see where it was and all that.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so you have just finished, investigating him. Let me just make sure one thing so that I don't get this wrong…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so the one thing you do know is that Feminoor really wanted to be,
Kostadis Roussos: To be, the, the, the,
Kostadis Roussos: the next leader. So you… one option is to go talk to him, and the other is to go talk to Sylvira Savikas, or to talk to them both at the same time.
Gabe: I thought Mike was gonna talk to… Fheminor Scrivenbark?
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, yep, this is your second hour, so do you wanna… do you wanna… okay, we'll start with Mike talking to…
Kostadis Roussos: Fheminor Scrivenbark.
Gabe: Sorry, was the… is there still hour one?
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, you each did one, so since you did it all in… since you all acted independently.
Ben Pfaff: So there was one more thing I was going to try to find out in the library. Okay. Should that wait till.
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, no, if you're gonna… you said you wanted to… since you found it in your first die roll.
Ben Pfaff: Yes, I wanted to, find out what…
Ben Pfaff: what spells, Sapphire is specific to.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, so…
Ben Pfaff: And I don't know whether that's 100 spells or 3.
Ben Pfaff: You know, or one.
Kostadis Roussos: Let me just see what…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So, the core sapphire spells…
Kostadis Roussos: That requires… that it is, that produces this is…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, let me just, get… I did the research.
Kostadis Roussos: That's the kind of thing that you can ask any Magic user, and they're like, oh, yes, of course, that spell.
Kostadis Roussos: When they ask you.
Ben Pfaff: Libby, I already know.
Kostadis Roussos: You're not a magic user, you're a cleric.
Ben Pfaff: Oh.
Kostadis Roussos: Okay, you're a clerk.
Kostadis Roussos: It's…
Ben Pfaff: Oh, you're saying any wizard type?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes, yes, wizard, wizard, not magic user, sorry.
Kostadis Roussos: My first edition roots coming, screaming.
Ben Pfaff: And we're assuming Wizard just because,
Ben Pfaff: Just because this place is full of wizards.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so let me just make sure I did not get this wrong.
Gabe: And just to confirm, we know it's a normal sapphire, not a black sapphire.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, it was a normal sapphire. I'm almost dreading to ask, what did you read, Gabe?
Gabe: I may have asked.
Daz: You're…
Gabe: some AI-driven research on the topic.
Daz: You know, you know when Gabe does a random question, it's like, oh, okay. And then, like, and then, like, 3 sessions from now, he's gonna be like, I know we're in town, is there any place I can pick up some obscure weapon?
Daz: Then all of a sudden, a flightless bird can fly.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, alright, let me just… okay. So, just want to make sure I don't… since this is a bit of a murder investigation, I need to make sure I don't…
Kostadis Roussos: Huh.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: So,
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so it's, the most useful… it's a spell for… That can be used.
Kostadis Roussos: It's essentially a protection spell.
Kostadis Roussos: It's… You touch this… here, I'll just, it's for Dwarmij's, this is the closest spell that,
Kostadis Roussos: Here, I'm gonna put it, in the… I'll put it in the Discord chat.
Joe Beda: I'm like, yeah, which of the 12 chapters.
Kostadis Roussos: I put it… yeah, no, no, I'm… yeah, you know…
Gabe: See, here, I thought you were going to go with temporal stasis, but alright, it's a different direction.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, it's a summoning spell.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright. So, while that's going on, while that was going on, Glabbagool…
Kostadis Roussos: Is summoned for his little quest… his little quest.
Ben Pfaff: Oh, it needs a very expensive sapphire.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Daz: Oh, wait a second, this is like a market for teleportation into my hand later kind of thing.
Gabe: This would be great for the High Tower Keys.
Ben Pfaff: Oh.
Joe Beda: Is there any way to tell whether.
Ben Pfaff: But that wouldn't work, because they seem to be always carried on a lanyard, and it doesn't work if,
Ben Pfaff: Although you'd find out who was… who was holding it.
Daz: I mean, it would be invisible.
Gabe: Well, holding or carrying, does it in a lanyard count?
Ben Pfaff: I would think so. I'd think that you're carrying anything that you're wearing.
Kostadis Roussos: No.
Kostadis Roussos: So yeah, so the two things you might be is, like, you can hide it with this spell.
Joe Beda: Oh, I see, so you can put it someplace, you can throw it into a river or whatever.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Joe Beda: Nobody will find it, and then when you need it back, boom.
Kostadis Roussos: It's in your hands.
Kostadis Roussos: Right.
Kostadis Roussos: That's probably… I say this without having read the whole module, so that may or may not be the accurate use of it.
Kostadis Roussos: the thing.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, but I thought we'd end with, like, Glabbagool's… Glabbagool's.
Joe Beda: Yeah, I want to know Glabegul's take.
Kostadis Roussos: Well…
Kostadis Roussos: Glabbagool, you know, is, taken to the Whispering… Glabbagool, moseys over to the Whispering Dome. He's sort of like an oozing thing. Zalthir, do you follow him?
Gabe: Thr!
Kostadis Roussos: And so…
Kostadis Roussos: He enters, he enters the… he enters the, the, the, the Whispering Dome, and you see him just sort of flatten.
Gabe: Go on.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Kostadis Roussos: And then… And then… We're just…
Joe Beda: Whispering Dome again?
Kostadis Roussos: It's one of the locations in the, in the temple. In the, in the, in the,
Kostadis Roussos: Let's see if I just find him.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, so, the, the guy who gave them, who gave them,
Kostadis Roussos: So… he looks at you, and someone… so, apparently this… the Whispering Dome is where supplicants go to… to learn something about themselves.
Kostadis Roussos: Good question.
Joe Beda: Whispering Dome of Introspection, okay.
Kostadis Roussos: Yeah, and so.
Ben Pfaff: Which reminds me, on Futurama, the professor has a room called the Angry Dome.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes. And so, Glabbagool has asked, you know, a question about movement.
Kostadis Roussos: Like, what is the art of movement?
Ben Pfaff: And there's, like, this.
Kostadis Roussos: laws of, like, 60 seconds.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? Like, it's like he's just paused.
Kostadis Roussos: And then, the, the, the, the, the set, the… The monk.
Kostadis Roussos: Looks at him, smiles, and says, And nods his head.
Kostadis Roussos: And, glah, but…
Kostadis Roussos: And then, Glabbagool says, the body that mimics nothing is already shaped by what it watches.
Joe Beda: So what it watches, or washes?
Kostadis Roussos: Watches.
Kostadis Roussos: And then… Glabbagool… .
Joe Beda: Does he say something stupid or profound? Please say stupid and profound.
Kostadis Roussos: Mr.
Joe Beda: Same time.
Kostadis Roussos: BlobGool goes, I've been waiting to do this for a very long time.
Kostadis Roussos: And you suddenly see Glabbagool is kind of, like, on your arm. And he goes, GlabbagoolZaltir combo action.
Gabe: Yes? Can I, like, punch something, or…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes, you can punch something. I'll give you the handout.
Gabe: Mmm.
Kostadis Roussos: Glabbagool… Glabbagool has become a sidekick of yours.
Gabe: This is exciting! We formed Voltron or something.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I will, I will, yeah, so just so you know, so Glabbagool is now a…
Kostadis Roussos: an 8th level sidekick, when in darkness, he can teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space.
Kostadis Roussos: He can, do a flurry of blows.
Kostadis Roussos: Right? And, he can force his acidic shadow key into the wound.
Kostadis Roussos: Right?
Gabe: Hmm. The last one will need some explanation, but this sounds exciting.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes.
Ben Pfaff: Do Sidekicks officially have levels?
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, they do gain levels, yes.
Ben Pfaff: Oh.
Kostadis Roussos: And he also has a corrosive embrace that costs him 2Kai.
Kostadis Roussos: The target is currently grappled
Kostadis Roussos: And so, Glabbagool would bypass the normal attack load, use his Master's Hole to surge over the restrained target.
Gabe: Interesting. Okay, so it will actually ride on my arm, and…
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, yes, he's gonna go, we ride!
Gabe: I liked it!
Kostadis Roussos: Glabbagool.
Kostadis Roussos: Then he goes, but it must be quiet.
Gabe: Does this also mean I have, like, two eyes on my arm? Like, just kind of looking around?
Kostadis Roussos: He kind of has, like, four eyes, you know, like…
Gabe: Well, good! So I just admire him now.
Kostadis Roussos: You could talk to him about not wanting to have eyes on your arm.
Ben Pfaff: He's a biblically correct gelatinous cube.
Gabe: Right, she doesn't need the eyes, right?
Kostadis Roussos: No, no, no, no, he just thinks that people think they're important for him to have big.
Gabe: Okay, so maybe he can just look more like my normal… scales, whatever I have.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, I mean, he pauses and goes… but then he says, wait, we should probably stay in the bag of holding, we don't want the drow to escape.
Gabe: Well, either way, as long as you check in on the drow, we're all good.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, okay, so I will… yes, so, she has… the target takes 4, 46 worth of damage.
Gabe: This is exciting.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, so…
Joe Beda: Why are we attacking this target?
Gabe: No, no, just in general, he's explaining.
Joe Beda: I'm like, are we getting in a fight? I mean.
Gabe: This is a.
Joe Beda: very…
Kostadis Roussos: Very surreal.
Joe Beda: Poirot episode.
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, we will continue next week. So yes, Glabbagool has now… is now… has now graduated from…
Kostadis Roussos: Random character to full, full.
Joe Beda: And he's not even afraid of the dark.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, no, no, no, no. The opposite. Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: I will, okay…
Kostadis Roussos: Alright, yes, so yes, he answered the question wisely.
Kostadis Roussos: the former shadow monk who is a flight, like, you know, looks at you and says.
Kostadis Roussos: And if only you had paid more attention to those classes about silent discussion and communication, you would know exactly what…
Kostadis Roussos: What he is saying. But unfortunately, that was the day you were sleeping.
Gabe: Too much gardening research.
Kostadis Roussos: Dude, if you go through the summaries, I have them add periodic memories from your monk training.
Kostadis Roussos: So the amount of, like, oh, well, this was a monk training I missed.
Gabe: Right. There's a lot of them at this point. Was I ever there?
Kostadis Roussos: Wait, that's a good question!
Kostadis Roussos: Given that you achieved your success by, like, you know, not shadow-stepping, but by smashing things.
Gabe: You know.
Kostadis Roussos: The slap-slap. This was not the shadow step, this was not the shadow bunk moving silently, this is more like the…
Ben Pfaff: This is the Berserker Monk.
Kostadis Roussos: Yes, there's a Berserker Muck.
Gabe: Alright.
Kostadis Roussos: Anyways, well, I hope you had some fun.
Daz: Dude, we're.
Gabe: but…
Joe Beda: Have a great week, guys!
Daz: They care.
Kostadis Roussos: Oh, yes. Alright, take care. Bye. See you next week. Oh, but, Joe, fine.